# 26.
For the IoT sensor a power consumption of milliwatts should be the target as these may run on 
batteries, and the battery lifetime is the goal. It also should not need high powerconsumption. 
Power consumption could prob be even lower if smart hardware interrupts are used. Such a sensor 
may use a very simple cpu architecture, like a low-power risc-v processor, or even just simple direect 
hardware implementation of the control. The priority is low cost and low power.

The smartphone has some of the same energy consumption requirements as the sensor, though usually 
are expected to run more demanding programs, have more features for interfaceing with multiple systems,
so a power consumption of a few watts is reasonable. Either a higher performance RISC-V or arm cpu 
architecture is common, where more complex hardware features like prefetching, multi-level caches and 
hardware accelerators for encryption, graphics, and other edge features may be expected.

Mainframe can have somewhere between 100-1000W consumption, generally with great OoO capabilities, 
generally performance is the key, without being limited by the powerconsumption of the system.

# 27.
Parallelism is beneficial where throughput is required. GPUs, vector processors, OoO, multithreading,
SIMD.

# 28.
Memory wall: processing speed has increased more rapidly than memory speed due to worse scaling 
with newer transistor nodes for memory. When memory increases in speed less than computing, the 
processor is left waiting for the data, reducing overall performance. Multiple levels of caches, 
prefetching data and SMT limit the adverse effects of memory wall. Accelerators are also possible to 
use.

# 29.
A sidechannel attack is an attack that is based on utilizing information that is inadvertantly leaked 
from the processor, either through the implementatin of the ISA or any optimizations implemented on the processor.
The leaked data can be exploited to gather information from processes that it should not be able to 
get information on, such as encryption keys. Many side-channel attacks work by exploiting prediction,
such as branch or data prediction to leak the data when mispredictions happen, so by training it to do
wrong predicitons it may leak the data in a squashed mispredict.
Such side-channels are a threat to computer architecture design principles because they prey on the 
optimizations used to increase performance in modern, high-performance systems. This means that one either 
has to do without such optimizations, decreasing performance significantly, or find clever ways to counteract 
them. 

# 30.
Memory consistency ensures that the program order and the memory order is upheld when dealing with 
observable memory operations. SC dictates that all observable memory operations are performed in-order,
whilst RC does not have ordering rules but has primitives for synchronization through the use of release and 
acquire flags that force serialization for memory operations.
Coordination between multiple actors might not work when moving from SC to RC, getting bad values 
because values that otherwise would have been ready in SC could not be available in RC. 
